The Joe Rogan experience. Do you, are you optimistic about the future?
Yeah,
I say that because it's going to take a lifetime's work and I don't think that
in our lifetime, um, much is going to change. I think, you know,
maybe for the next generation.
Uh, what is it,
the picture of ma how do you conceive of your job at the moment and, and what,
what is the status quo? I mean, so for instance,
ISIS or the Islamic state is sort of fading from most people's memory now.
I mean, there's, you know, uh, even mine I'm, uh,
I'm spending much less time thinking about it because it seems to Vincent.
So let me tell you a story. I can answer this question with a story. So radical,
which is my autobiography has a us publication, right? Um,
in the UK it's random house penguin,
it's published by the biggest publishing house. Uh,
when I came to publish in the U S I approached publishing houses,
but it was after bin Laden was killed.
And so when we approached 10, 20, whatever publishing houses,
the problem solved, they all said, no, they said the problem solved. They said,
we think, you know, we wish you'd come to us five years earlier,
but problem solved. Now there's not a problem anymore. And, uh,
and a bit like what you mentioned is sort of your expertise. And, and I,
I have been consumed by this subject all my life.
And there are a few people on this planet that I would take seriously on this
subject, um, uh, outside,
especially of Quilliam and there are other organizations,
they have some really good people, but I know them all. And, uh,
we regularly speak. So I would say it's all these publishing houses.
I can assure you 100%.
This problem not only has not been solved is going to come back around in a far
worse way than you can ever have imagined. This is before ISIS came along.
None of them believe me, of course, what then happened.
My book eventually got published by some very small publishing house in the U S
and has done quite well for them.
But the point of the story was this ISIS came around and people were suddenly
like, oh my God, where did this come from? Of course,
those of us who had been monitoring the situation knew this was going to come
back around very, very heavy. Now that ISIS has been pushed back.
And this is where this story is sort of the point of the story is we've got to
resist the temptation to believe the problem has been solved because the,
the organization known as ISIS, which is an, a bureaucracy has been fought back.
But the ideology upon which that organization was built, um,
is still very much alive. And it's still strong. Um,
what Al-Qaida did while the whole world was focused on ISIS,
was exploited that opportunity to rebuild and regroup. And they've been,
uh, rebuilding in Syria.
Now they are stronger than they have ever been even under bin Laden,
because for the first time in the history of that organization,
they are firmly embedded within the Syrian population as a genuinely kind of
viewed by the people that they were fighting on behalf of as a grassroots
resistance organization. Whereas before that,
they were seen as a terrorist group, that was like, you know,
just like a Vanguard they've embedded themselves in the Syrian population,
in the Yemeni civil war. They've embedded themselves in north Africa,
east Africa, and in Pakistan. And they are resurgent and they are grooming, ah,
Hamza bin Laden who has been not in sun and the grooming him for leadership.
And a time will come maybe in a couple of months,
maybe in a couple of years where they announced sometime in Leiden as a new
leader of Al-Qaida currently at Siemens, who are, when they do that,
once their grooming has been complete and assuming Hamza isn't killed up until
then all of the, um, fragments of what remains of ISIS will probably rejoin.
Al-Qaida under Hamza bin Laden,
and you'll have a stronger than ever before on kinder organization.
And we've got to,
we've got to remember that we never expected ISIS to emerge and kinda will come
back with a vengeance.
Okay. W what is the, the politics between the remnants of ice, uh, uh,
ISIS.
And Okada? Well,
how has it been loud in succession to the leadership solves that problem of the
pickers, the ISIS guys? Um, well,
originally all Al-Qaeda ISIS was Al-Qaeda in Syria and they broke away after bin
Laden died because they didn't,
they had pledged allegiance to bin Laden and the new leader of Al Qaeda Ayman
Suare is by all accounts, a rather uncharismatic. And you know, he's a,
he's a pediatrician. He's not really a kind of bin Laden had the pediatrician.
Yeah, he's, [inaudible], he's
an Egyptian pediatrician from a very well-off Egyptian family, by the way. Um,
I think his grandfather was the German ambassador to the UN pharmacists. Um,
Binladin clearly had the charisma, the wealth, the presence, the looks
, he had all of it that Zara doesn't, um,
as wirey is competitive in Latin, he does it doesn't, you know, so
if the guys that broke away from Al-Qaeda's form ISIS centers, a watery
, the current leader, we pledged allegiance to be learning. We owe you nothing.
You are not our Amir, our leader. If Hamza bin Laden
comes back into, as the leader of Al Qaeda
, it solves that problem because those remnants of ISIS have a loyalty to the Binladin name, and
they've been light in family, and they remember what they consider
their glory days fighting under on the Binladin.
Yeah. That's not nice to.
Hear that's no good. No, no. The problem has not gone away.
I can tell you that the problem and the problem is the ideology,
and it will not be dealt with until we deal with this ideology.
And it's why it's so dangerous to, you know,
there was this awful term that I railed against.
It was so frustrating to see under Obama's presidency.
The us state department officially adopted as their name for challenging this
problem, they adopted the term Al-Qaida inspired extremism.
Of course it isn't, it isn't Al-Qaeda that it inspired extremism.
It's extremism that inspired Al-Qaida and it's for the purposes of political
correctness.
You've got this term in the state department officially that we're fighting
across the world. We are fighting,
Al-Qaeda inspired extremism my former organization.
Here's what I heard a caliphate espousing organization that believes in their
ideal califate that gay should be killed adulterous.
It should be stoned to death. Um, they were there before all kinder,
and this ideology has been there before on kite.
I'll kinda was one of a long line of groups that came as a result of these
limits ideology. And we've got to start focusing on the ideology itself,
not the physical groups that spring up from it because they can change their
name.
Um, as you point out, there's a, another layer to the ideology.
That is all that is even more well subscribed that presents social and political
problems. So for this, as you said,
there are conservative Muslims who don't support Al-Qaeda,
they're not jihadist. They, they can,
they would honestly say bin Ladin doesn't represent my brand of Islam,
but these are still people who will,
who will say that homosexuals should be killed. So, so it's like,
there's the apparent allies against quote
extremism can still be people with.
So with religiously mandated social attitudes,
that just cannot be assimilated in cosmopolitan societies.
Uh, so people who are worse,
worse than worse than Al-Qaeda inspired extremism,
there's just this notion that on the left, and this was,
this came out of Obama's mouth and it came out of Clinton's mouth.
And it's largely why she's wasn't president. Uh,
it's not, it's just generic extremism, right? So that,
like in the same sentence that you have to worry about the califate you have to
talk about, uh, abortion doctors being killed in the U S once every 15 years.
So you wrote, cause you remember,
because president Obama refused to use the word Islamist extremism. Of course,
Trump has the other problem.
He thinks that bite like Rumpelstiltskin by repeating it enough,
you've solved the problem, you know, but,
but actually one of the elements in which he was correctly critical of Obama
was, and I was at the time, uh,
vocally critical of Obama's reluctance to use the word Islamist extremism. Um,
and we've got no problem. When we talk about, you know, uh,
when we talk about white supremacist ideology,
we don't mean that all white people are supremacists. You know,
what we were doing here is,
is actually attributing precisely specifically what the ideology is and
believes in white supremacy and likewise Islamist, you know, it's important.
So we can identify that ideology, um, still, while not calling it Islam,
right? So we're still giving a bit of a leeway there for everybody else,
all the other Muslims,
but to call it Islamist extremism is to recognize that it's an offshoot of
Islam, it's a manifestation extreme or otherwise obvious lamb.
And thereby we are acknowledging that its justifications are in Islamic
scripture, as well as of course,
a multiplicity of other causes grievances and what have you.
But we cannot ignore that.
It's also rests on justifications that are derived from the Islamic scripture.
I mean,
I can cite for the Arabic that tells you in the crown itself to cut the hand of
the thief or to lash the adulterer. Um, you know, the, these are the,
are the Heidi for the saying of the prophet that says kill the person that
changes their religion. This is scripture. Um,
and so of course there are other factors involved as well.
But one of the factors that gives rise to this, uh,
is the unreformed scripture that these site.
And so we have to knowledge that Islam has a role to play. Um, I often say that,
you know, because again, under the Obama presidency,
it was frustrating that the common refrain was to say that Islam,
this has nothing to do with Islam.
This is absurd is arguing that the Spanish inquisition had nothing to do with
Catholicism.
He wasn't even further at one point,
didn't he at one point say that not only does this have nothing to do with
Islam, this has less to do with Islam than any other religions. It was just,
he bent over backwards.
It's not saying the crusades have nothing to do Christianity.